In march 2007 Grant Searle introduced "CP/M on Breadboard", a 9 chip Z80 CP/M computer using a CF card as mass storage device. http://http://searle.hostei.com/grant/
This design was inspired by his work. 

This version uses 11 chips, and supports a 512k SRAM with 32k memory banks, which allows for banked systems and RAM-drives. The system may use a CF-card or a SD-card as mass memory, provided a suitable IDE interface board is used. The two serial interfaces provide TTL-level terminal access, which are intended to be used with USB or RS-232 converters. 

5V power is provided by either the serial interface (USB) or using a separate power connector, which also may be used to power the IDE interface.

Schematics and Eagle files for a 80x100 mm PCB are included. These can be used to order the PCB itself with any on-line company (Seeed, DirtyPCB, EasyEDA etc) 

All software (including ROM) was rewritten. it currently includes:

CP/M 2.2, 
Dos+ 2.5,
CP/M 3.1,
ZSDOS 1.1 / ZCPR2
ZPM3 /ZCCP
NASCOM "ROM" BASIC


Each CP/M version supports 3 8MB drives (A:, B: and C:) as well as one 384 kB Ramdrive (M:).
A: B: and C: may be mapped on any of the available 8 MB segments (volumes) on the memory card, with a maximum of 254 (on a 2GB+ card). B: and C: are remappable in a running system using an included transient program MOUNT.COM.

Each of the volumes is bootable and an identical layout is used in all CP/M versions. The Ramdisk is not bootable, but an identical layout is used troughout.
The content of the ramdisk will not change during reboots but will be erased when the board is powered down.

Essential volume maintenace tooling is provided in the system ROM montor. This includes formatting and system transfer.

Building the board is straightforward. The UV-EPROM needs to be programmed with the ROM code. Only the 7400 chip which drives the clock needs to be of a HCT variety (74HCT00) all other chips can be LS, HC or HCT. The Z-80 and the SIO need to be 6 MHz versions in ether C-MOS or N-MOS (clock frequency is 7.3728 MHz)

It is suggested to mount the IDE connector under the board so a suitable CF or SD interface board can be mounted without any cabling. As the IDE interface is unbuffered, long cables and multiple connectors should be avoided.

The board is pre-jumpered for use with a 512 kByte SRAM. When a 128 kByte SRAM is used the thin bridge under the board should be cut and a jumper placed.

There are two software installation methods A "long" method, using the boards monitor and a "quick" method, copying a base image onto the memory card you wish to use. Please read the installation instructions.
